What is waste?
Waste (also known as rubbish, trash,refuse, garbage or junk) is unwanted or unusable materials.How much waste are you throwing away? Over the past 40 years, the amount of waste that we throw away for disposal in Singapore has increased from 0.438 million tonnes in 1970 to 2.63 million tonnes today, enough to fill about 310 soccer fields to an average man’s height of 1.7m!More than 90% of the total waste collected for disposal in Singapore is incinerated and less than 10%of it ends up in the landfill. If this rate of waste generation continues, Singapore will need to build one new incineration plant every 10-15 years and one new landfill the size of Sentosa every 35-45 years! This is not sustainable! So, do your part for the environment NOW! Reduce, Reuse, RecycleYou can do your part to reduce waste! Minimise food waste. Avoid the use of disposable products. Buy products with less packaging. Did you know that Food Waste constitutes about 20% of waste disposed of in Singapore? The truth is, food doesn’t have to go to waste if you Plan your grocery shopping trips and buy only as much as you can eat or cook. Store any leftovers and consume them before they spoil. Prepare and cook only what you need for consumption. Order or take just enough food when eating out. Ask for less noodles or rice if you know you cannot finish the food.
“Reduce Food Waste” Tip The organisation and proper storage of food in the kitchen helps to reduce waste. Allocate one area of the fridge for keeping leftovers and do a quick inventory of the fridge two to three times a week to ensure that food is not pushed to the back and left to spoil.
Did you know one-third of waste from households comes from product packaging? A simple choice you make can go a long way. Simply, Buy household products that are used frequently in large or economy-sized packaging. Buy refill packs for your cleaning and personal care products. Choose products with less packaging. Support products with packaging made from recycled and reused material. Choose packaging that are reusable or recyclable. Instead of bottled water, choose refillable bottles and refill with tap water.
Recycle. The following items can all be recycled: Paper, Glass, Metal Cans, Clothes and Plastic.
The 5 steps of proper recycling: 
Step 1: Recycle paper, plastic, metal, glass and old clothing
Step 2: Empty recyclable containers of their contents
Step 3: Deposit recyclables into recycling bins instead of leaving them outside.
Step 4: Do not deposit food waste and non-recyclables into recycling bins
Step 5: Do not dispose bulky items like furniture and renovation waste at recycling bins. What happens to your recyclables after they are collected?
Stage 1: The Public Waste Collector collects recyclables from the recycling bins
Stage 2: These trucks go to Materials Recovery Facility (MRF) for recyclables sorting.
Stage 3: Recyclables are dropped onto a conveyor belt and workers would sort the various types of plastic, glass and paper.
Stage 4: The remaining waste passes through magnets that pick up scrap metal and aluminium respectively.
Stage 5: The various recyclables would be sent to various recycling facilities accordingly